Predicting How Much an Advertiser Will Spend

Microsoft has a goal to grow its Bing advertising product from a $7 billion dollar per year business to a $10 billion dollar per year business. There are two major strategies it can leverage to achieve this goal: increase its Bing user base and syndicate partnerships to increase aggregate network supply and or increase its advertiser current share of wallet. As the search engine experience between Google and Bing has become undifferentiated, growing user base is a long term challenge. More immediate impact can be realized by focusing on capturing a greater share of advertisers’ wallet. This strategy falls into the scope of Microsoft’s Search Sales team.

Growing advertiser budgets with Bing’s current market share is at its core a big data problem. Initially, we need to understand three key elements: percent of targeted supply advertiser is capturing (search share), cost to advertiser of capturing incremental supply, and the advertiser’s capabilities to scale budget. Knowledge of the network supply and demand gap help sales understand maximum potential. However, understanding advertiser scalability allows sales teams to focus efforts on those advertisers that are most able to increase budgets. In other words, insight into advertiser scalability provides sales teams actual (as opposed to maximum) advertiser potential. Determining actual potential requires a prediction of how much an advertiser could spend. In order to make this prediction, Microsoft needs to build an analytics solution for forecasting the future values of multiple time series.[@ZoteroStart] Several data points will be crucial to this solution: Internet Explorer/Bing web traffic log files from major search networks and a domain business vertical-classification algorithm.

By developing a model for how much an advertiser can actually spend, Microsoft can establish a benchmark for each advertiser and alert sales teams to how a particular advertiser is trending against its benchmark. Sales teams, in turn, can focus on those advertisers with the biggest upside - high spenders and high trailers. Better alignment between sales teams and actual advertiser potential can help optimize Bing’s sales motion and drive revenue growth at a faster rate.

test
